hey guys I don't have a lot to say in
this video and it's now going to go on
for 45 minutes right I get positive
feedback from people on patreon people
have decided to pay one dollar a month
to support what I'm doing you're on
YouTube support my long term aspirations
to be involved in politics of veganism
ecology animal rights etc the long term
aspirations that you've probably heard
me express again and again from many
different angles on this YouTube channel
already there's not much I can do to
express my thanks to the people who you
know get their credit card out of their
wallet and decide to pay me that one
dollar aside from wanting to do here in
this video which is to read out and
reply to a couple of those those
messages in some ways what I'm saying
this video is really anticipated by the
long long conversation i had with
american unicorn so that's an hour and
forty minute podcast that's already up
that's been up for about a week now and
in it american unicorn she just had
decided to delete her youtube channel i
talked her through some things you need
to be prepared for uh here in the
digital demon vegan demi-monde um i was
giving her some encouragement and advice
but a pointed out to her that you know
some of the shallow and stupid and
hateful comments you get may come every
five minutes and some of the people who
really appreciate what you do in a deep
way they may write to you once a year or
less offer the rights once a year so
these these letters are actually good
examples of that before i read out and
say just a few words are apply to these
these two letters I'll just say I think
this isn't news but you know it's with
no false humility that what I what I do
here on on YouTube is described as not
being activism this is not activism or
it's not activism yet I think you can
describe what i'm doing here as proto
activism as setting a foundation for
setting a basis for later political
activism and it's really a beautiful
thing that we're able to have these
debates these reflections these
conversations before any of us are
committed financially politically or
otherwise to a movement now I mean the
bad news is that there is no movement
currently
movement doesn't exist it's a proto
movement this is proto activism for a
proto movement some of us are more
optimistic than others about what we can
do as vegans in the future but you know
having studied political science it's
it's a beautiful thing it's really a
wonderful luxury that we're able to
debate these things and discuss them in
depth and at length really before any
form of activism has begun by contrast
I'll just sail choose one example in
many many examples from history but you
know in one of my former areas of
studies Southeast Asia Cambodia Laos
Thailand etc there were all of these
political movements and often they had
political publications before the
internet they had magazines they had
journals that you know on paper
publications there were political
movements that were loosely defined as
anti-war and they were often were
coalition's of people that came together
with a sense of urgency in crisis people
figured out oh my god the United States
is dropping so many bombs on Laos what's
really going on with this war really all
about and for example they never really
discussed what does anti-war mean does
anti-war mean that you support peace at
any cost does anti-war mean that you
care more about peace than you care
about human rights or democracy does
anti-war mean that you would support a
tater ship a communist dictatorship or a
military dictatorship before a
right-wing dictatorship does it mean you
would support a dictatorship as long as
that dictatorship can deliver peace
there are really really hard questions
and it's very easy now to look back on
those conflicts and you know and you
know being an anti-war magazine at that
time or an anti-war journal or anti-war
political movement are you willing or
unwilling to publish you know basically
what's Pro communist propaganda or
anti-american propaganda because at that
time there was a lot of very serious
propaganda and misinformation that might
be politically convenient for you as a
magazine but be politically convenient
for you to you know you're it's what
your readers want to hear it supports
your anti-war cause or movement but is
it true
is it legitimate can it be verified can
you even know whether or not it's true
and to what extent are you willing to
you know comma terror terrible questions
involving terrible ethical compromises
and you know there's a lot of this lot
of really terrible scholarship at that
time too there's a lot of really
misguided activism and what have you for
people whose hearts were in the right
place but very often they never had
those those conversations those debates
maybe they did within their own marriage
you know I think husbands and wives were
torn apart by that by the Vietnam War
it's a great example that many many
other you know momentous political
questions history were like that on the
level of your own family and friends I
think people might have set that as well
wait a minute what does it really mean
to be anti-war what is it we're pro or
we pro-democracy or what um way the fact
that you're critical of the work the
feather your concern about the war
effort you know and those were exactly
the words that got used you know you'd
have the the bulletin of Concerned Asian
Studies you'd have critical Asian
Studies you'd have these code words in
the titles of the publications and you
know hinting at the fact that these were
these were linked to anti-war political
movements but what does it mean to be
concerned about the Vietnam War what
does it mean to be critical of u.s.
foreign policy obviously those things
don't unite people you know there's
going to be a great variety of dissident
opinions anyway we're at that stage now
with veganism where I say this is sort
of proto activism this is a you know a
prelude to real political engagement
political activism but it's a beautiful
thing that people are really able to ask
these deeper questions and debate them
at length you know the people are not
blindly getting committed to
ideologically defined movements and of
course you know the exceptions roles uh
the exception to that rule the people
who are getting blindly committed or
exactly the groups that I think I have
been criticizing on this channel I think
that in many ways guy like Gary
Franchione a or a movement like direct
action everywhere I think they really
represent the old fashioned style
politicking and what we're able to do
now here on YouTube is really it's
really new fashioned and as with the
fundraiser I did before anyone who
disagrees with me on these these
fundamental issues they're welcome to
disagree but the point is different
people different different factions are
going to take the movement in different
directions and we're going to make
different foundations and that too could
be a beautiful thing the world is
definitely big enough for all of us I
can imagine a group of vegans being
completely devoted just to ocean issues
you know just to fishing at ocean
pollution I can imagine another group
being totally devoted just to river
issues and you can there will be
political differences between those
groups even if they're defined
geographically or echo logically or what
have you you know they're there are so
many categories obviously there could be
a group just devoted to zoos just
devoted to circuses just devoted to high
density agriculture feed Lots so many
issues and ultimately you know this is
the tragedy of think think global act
local tragedy is that that legally
almost all of us are tied to one place
that we have to pursue these global
issues in a local scale we have to deal
with City Hall the local provincial
government into the local state the
local governor ultimately we have to
cooperate people with people who who
legally are in the same jurisdiction of
ourselves and and people who are
participating in the same parliamentary
system the same the same government
wherever in the world you may be living
anyway guy named Tom writes in to me tom
says hey man what's up I'm not sure what
my true intention of writing to you is
but we'll see what this goes I've been
supporting you on patreon and I've been
a fan for around three months now it
struck me as bizarre that you have had
such an influence in my opinion yet I
have never reached out to you nor to
those in your patreon page so again this
is what i mentioned that interview with
with American unicorn people can have
meaningful things to say to you people
who you're positive supporters but they
have real jobs real lives and they have
no particular reason to bother you by
sending you you know a message every
five minutes or what have you the way
maybe someone who hates you does they're
not going to badger you they're not
going to waste your time so after after
several months this guy takes time to
write into me no thanks Tom a continue
reading I've been a vegetarian for over
four years now and I've transitioned to
a vegan diet over the last 10 months I
actually became aware of vegan YouTube
by consuming an hour's worth of what I
eat in a day videos every day as someone
who enjoys cooking I must admit they
really helped me and I learned a lot but
there's only so much avocado and quinoa
person can watch until you have seen it
all after a few months I began jumping
through the scenes I began jumping
through the scenes them talking so he's
talked about skipping head in the in the
videos as I gain nothing from it I've
heard it all before and became tired me
watching these videos isn't doing
anything productive then I found your
videos your video on community was
really what I needed it's the only video
regarding veganism that gave me any
passion god I hate that word I know why
it says that by way he says he hates the
word passion but am I thank you i can
take a compliment obviously i'm glad to
hear that that video in particular as
the one spoke to you apart from when i
first began reading up on the subject i
really enjoyed your content on pets as
it had been something i've been debating
for a while but mainly regarding the
aspect of pets eating meat he grew up
with pet cats though i had no one to
discuss this with isolation is something
you've spoken about in your videos i
dropped some of my vegetarian friends
due to their involvement with drugs and
their inability to be productive in any
sense I just pause something you know
the drug epidemic from my generation
drug use I can't say it influences all
of us but I think it's been a huge part
of so many people's lives everybody
knows somebody whose life has been
ruined or severely impacted by drug use
and that kind of decision we make who
you're going to spend time with drugs
and alcohol or so often an aspect of it
in modern Western culture so for me also
although as I've said a million
cocaine is vegan these are these are
issues outside of veganism but obviously
they overlap with and intersect with
veganism and they're they're really the
decisions then they can be a decisive
importance if you're putting together a
crew of people to actually go to City
Hall to actually get organized and to do
anything related to veganism ecology and
animal rights who is and who isn't a
drug user maybe the you know decisive
issue um this is freed me to a large
extent who st. cutting off these old
friends as freedom to understand and I
have a strong group of politically
minded friends but I'm finding more and
more how isolating my diet lifestyle and
philosophy makes me my studies are an
engineering an area obsessed with
efficiency and building better tomorrow
but nevertheless veganism is a rare
thing I've been stuck in an echo chamber
for several years with engineers and
scientists believing they're brighter
than humanity students however most of
the people my sector lack any political
discourse conversations aren't practical
many speak about our problems being
solved through technology and is common
to hear well we'll have nuclear fusion
soon so there's no point in building
wind farms or we'll all just be given
pills in the future so i can keep eating
meat right now because in the future
it'll be fine he then admits okay these
examples have been edited to sound even
more stupid than they really are but
that's honestly how I hear it sometimes
from from its colleagues many people in
this sector would rather have fun and
entertaining conversations about fifty
years into our future rather than the
next year in the years following change
doesn't happen as the result of
Technology political decisions give
technology its application so I just
pause I mean I think as we as we all
mature me grow older I mean it's with no
pride that I say that political science
and politics is so important in life in
a sense it's a luxury it's a wonderful
thing if you live in a place in the
world where you don't have to constantly
worry about politics where politics
isn't you know um constantly interfering
with and superseding
your other concerns and interests in
life but I think part of you know
maturity in almost every field unless
you work in a field that doesn't involve
other human beings in almost every field
as we mature we start to realize that
politics is alloyed with mixed up with
is inextricable part of just so much of
human aspiration and endeavor whether
it's in the arts or in the sciences or
what have you but obviously the the
process of realizing that and what the
implications are if your personal life
is very different from person the next
but yeah real social change he is saying
doesn't just happen as the result of
technology because political decisions
supersede that political decisions give
technology its direction its focus its
application as he says I continue this
letter from from Tom do have the name
right yeah just using first names here
Tom I come from Wales studied in England
and currently live in a small town in
hessen Germany working for an
engineering firm this isn't cool Berlin
its worst vine and potatoes thank God
for potatoes it says Birmingham England
while not the most glorious of cities
was a student city where my veganism
wasn't anything shocking the move to
Germany has proved to be difficult I
write as I have admired your ability to
remain vegan in some of the more
difficult areas and has certainly given
me the strength to not let this struggle
get me down it's possible to feel
isolated even when surrounded by friends
and I worry that my sector and current
living arrangements are clashing with my
police don't get me wrong though I
absolutely love my work and living in
this country is hugely benefited my
language skills thank you for making
veganism political for me I have always
been very interested in European
politics and I have really enjoyed what
you had to say from your background in
political science a term that many in my
sector would regard as an oxymoron thank
you for opening my eyes to areas such as
Laos Cambodia and Thailand in the past
that would have never been interested in
the people in system surrounding this
these countries and I may have been so
eurocentric as to believe that I could
only gain something cultural by visiting
within your
although Europe and somewhere that will
always have my heart he says keep your
videos and podcasts coming man keep
keepin it real kid me up tom so thank
thanks very much tom I don't have a lot
to say here I mean this video is mostly
just made in appreciation for my
supporters how do hospitals operate the
answer is in part scientific but it is
really in large part political yes
obviously science is inextricably
intertwined with every aspect of what
happens in hospital good bad and
indifferent but the organization of the
hospital what the hospital does how it
works who is and who isn't a doctor
there who's in charge who gives orders
and who follows orders who gets to be a
patient there and who doesn't how they
pay who's excluded news included so many
of the crucial questions of the hospital
including just how its organized how
effective there was how effective the
hospital is how effectively it's using
the resources it's given its budget its
millions of dollars so many of those
questions are political that even though
it may be invisible to us at first
especially if you come out of a pure
scientific background or a pure medical
science background as we mature we have
to learn to look at the world and see
the politics that's bound up in
everything 2cd inextricable in electable
sense in which you know these
institutions are political and in which
the changes we can make to them
especially in the short term next 10
years next 30 years those changes are
really political in nature I don't say
that with any pride in the discipline of
political science academically political
sciences is largely a disaster
especially in Canada I could do a whole
separate video on how pathetic political
sciences in Canada it really is worse
than it is in the United States really
is and I'm sure it's very different for
example in Germany I'm be interesting to
talk to someone there and contrast my
analysis of what happens again devise
Germany so you know these things it's
definitely very different in France I
looked into that seals PO in France
whole different story but in case it's
not out of any pry
in the academic discipline I have no
pride what's served in that academic
discipline but it's out of this deep
awareness I have that when we look at
the world around us we look at these
institutions the questions of
organizations the questions of potential
change those are really political
questions even though the science may
cite Sciences are involved in every
stage of it also just one more example
how does a nature reserve operate a
nature reserve a national park forest
conservation area whatever term you want
to use the answer the really meaningful
important answer is really political yes
there's science involved there's science
involved in counting the numbers of
animals and figuring out which animals
are endangered and keeping track of how
many wolves there are and how many deer
but the fundamental question for example
of whether the budget for it whether or
not it exists how the lines are drawn on
the map and then what is the purpose of
this institution does a national park
exist in order to sell as many tickets
as possible to a ski lodge or does it
really exist to benefit endangered
species habitat conservation or other
other goals may exist for public
education reasons also do you take kids
from the inner city and take them out to
the countryside and show them what a
bear looks like in the wild or a moose
or anything else there may be all sorts
of reasons social reasons as well as
scientific reasons as well as you know
animal rights type reason for why that
institution exists but you know the
difference is we deal with are not
really so much in science they're in
political science and that may be tragic
maybe there will be a better place of
those questions we're not political but
but they are okay next letter i'm going
to read is from Mali Thank You Molly
thank you for joining my patreon thank
you for paying the one dollar a month
hello I Somali rights it is my pleasure
to finally reach out to you I've been a
subscriber YouTube channel for over a
year now and I've been meaning to
message you at some point so again just
like I said in that interview hour and
forty minute interview with American
corn a lot of the people who appreciate
your work most they don't pester you
every day or even every month they write
to after more that a year which is great
thanks
running in Mali and I think you'll soon
hear she has a pretty busy life she's
doing a lot of meaningful things to
their life she has a lot of meaningful
aspirations he has a lot of better
things to be doing than that then
writing into me I come to you now
seeking advice and discussion because I
already know so much about you I will
include a bit of background information
about myself i'm a 21 year old public
health undergrad student in Florida so
university degree is in public health so
coincidentally that's quite like the
example i just used of a hospital being
really an intensely political
institution and organization and
questions possible form really being
more political than scientific or
political scientific um I became vegan
two years ago when I learned about the
daily atrocities committed against
animals and decided I could no longer
take part in it I changed my diet
overnight and spent the rest of that
week ridding my house of all products of
cruelty I could find after watching just
one of your videos on vegan philosophy I
felt I had finally understood who I am I
can take a compliment Thank You Molly
but um that is quite a compliment she
says after watching just one of my
videos on vegan philosophy she felt she
finally understood who she well thank
you I do not make my videos for a huge
audience it's wonderful now that so many
of my videos reach about two thousand
viewers but it's the depth of what's
being shared here that I think is really
important sometimes I put up videos that
are just for fun that are just silly you
guys know that but obviously this is the
stuff that's going to matter five years
from now five years from now is not that
far in the future yes really but five
years from now Molly will be 26 not 21 I
don't even want to think about how old
I'm gonna be but um I'm really not
worried about this week's controversy
I'm worried about building that future
for myself for her for all of us and yes
ultimately for the animals for ecology
for the planet but we got to start with
getting five people or 50 people
organized who can really make a
difference in this world
most of my life she says most of my life
I considered myself a nice person who
just had a more humanitarian heart than
most others I met but I have been slowly
casting off the nice girl facade I was
operating under I am bitter I am
impatient I want change it's the realest
thing in the world I mean look it's it's
good that you know that at age 21 it's
good that you're aware of that and you
know you may go through a period of time
when you're a bit out of control on that
I don't know you may have a completely
under control but the fact that you you
know it and you can write those words at
age 21 I think means that you know as
soon maybe by age 23 you may really have
be a hundred percent you know you may
have perfected that that really
difficult art of being passionate highly
motivated and you know ambitious that's
what you're talking about you've got to
take that bitterness that impatience
that desire for change and harness it or
harness is not a very vegan or do you
know shape it into a kind of a kind of
ambition that's productive in your own
life and that you know hopefully makes
you more friends than it makes you
enemies in terms of how you how you
share that passion with your fellow man
but nobody's perfect and you don't need
to be perfect and you don't need to live
a lie and you don't need to live under a
facade you know you don't you don't need
to pretend to be a nice girl and you
know niceness is suitable for some
things and not others it's all comes
down to this brings me to why contacted
you izel I will be completing my
undergraduate degree this coming spring
I'm looking forward to the future I do
not desire to become another cog in the
corporate machine I want to bring about
real change legislation against animal
cruelty is the most impactful solution
comma correct so this video is not going
to be a long discussion I mean I think
she's hoping to start a long session ii
which is great and I've talked with this
stuff legislation against animal cruelty
may really not be the best goal for you
to be pursuing short-term or long-term
this stuff I mean guys like okay I'm not
going to quote authors there's no point
that was going to quote some some
figures from history political science
their questions of you know legislating
against the majority matters of
principle come first when we're in
face-to-face conversation with their
fellow human being but mad as the
principal come last when you're talking
about legislation we're not going to
have a despised minority of less than
one percent of the population voiced a
resolution that for example makes all
factory farming illegal in a democracy
at a time when the vast majority of
people support factory farming now I
don't even have a statistic for that
they're currently there are no poles on
how popular unpopular you know factory
farming is and as I mentioned recently
in the video that was talking about the
how weak the comparison to slavery is
before you even got to the civil war in
the United States the debates around
slavery had totally dominated you know
US Congress us summit for such a long
time is a major you know defining issue
that have reorganized politics the
United States and veganism isn't most
people are not even aware of it and I'm
certain the vast majority of the
population if you ask them but factory
farming would kind of reluctantly look
at you and say what what are you talking
about and would simply report that they
don't care that was again that was not
the case at all with slavery before the
Civil War was in the cases every after
the Civil War even even less so everyone
was mobilized everyone had an opinion
everyone regarded it as as tremendously
important so you know legislation
against animal cruelty short term well
you know sure if you can do it if it's
something that that motivates people to
some extent in politics you know the
process is the product i was talking to
another vegan has a youtube channel
about lobbying and i was really saying
to her look the strength of lobbying is
that you can deliver something
meaningful to your donors right away the
process is the product so if me and this
other youtuber if we go to city hall or
provincial parliament in canada some
local level of government we prepare a
little speed
deposition that's presented the
government and we film that and we put
it on YouTube then we get to turn to our
donors and say look these are your
donations at work here's what we did
with the money you know we put together
this information we went to government
we lobbied government and if absolutely
nothing else comes out of it if
everybody in the provincial Parliament
sits there and says i don't care i just
want to eat bacon sandwiches for lunch
if that's the attitude of people in
government still the process is the
product and for your social movement for
your foundation for your donors
ultimately there is something meaningful
you're doing so I'm really stating this
as a sort of concession however at this
stage in 2016 I think the most
fundamental struggle is exactly what I
talk about my video on community that's
already been mentioned before it's a
struggle to go from being an invisible
minority to being a visible minority
from being a despised minority to a
highly vocal highly respected minority
and as I've said so many times I think
the really positive example in Canada
for my generation is the gay rights
movement is that gays went from
invisible to visible from despised to
respected really that's not
understanding it oh they went from being
despised to being respected and then
ultimately the end of that process they
did have legislation that gave them
rights they didn't have before that
legislated new civil rights really that
you know but that was the end of the
process it really was I was the final
step and that was at a stage when you
know the opposition to those those legal
reforms had really become dug into a
very narrow defensive religious posture
where they had less and less of a
constituency behind them and someone
we're for something so specifically
saying legislation against animal
cruelty it's a very very distant goal
now what about legislation against
polluting rivers see that's a wedge two
different which people who eat meat if
you frame in that way so look you eat
meat so you support factory farming but
factory farming can change I'm a vegan I
don't support factory farming but here's
one of the
problems with factory farming is that
they are polluting the rivers so I want
this legislation that protects your
drinking water that holds this industry
to a higher standard this is what I
could go on all day I gave the example
ages go of even the the standards for
the trucks that leave the factory farms
you can pick you can pick things that
are so my mute they're meaningless but
obviously river pollution is not
meaningless so choosing the type of
legislation and then how you can build a
constituency how you can build the core
of the movement being devoted vegans but
choosing a topic where the door is going
to be open at Parliament the doors can
be opened with the public with the press
because you haven't chosen something as
narrow as animal cruelty love as a whole
the whole of factory farming would end
if animal cruelty is really illegal then
overnight what factory farming has to
cease to exist so you know if we're
looking at this step-by-step those
issues for example water quality that
maybe I don't know where she let out
Florida somewhere in florida it may be
that you've got to pick a very different
you know very different legal issue at
least to begin with but as they say to
some extent the process is the products
there is actually some value in
presenting to Parliament or to a local
city hall there there is actually a
point for you and for your movement for
followers just in making the
presentation just in doing the lobbying
itself even if you and you know but on
the other hand in terms of building that
visible community there's also a point
in opening restaurants night clubs
having dance parties whatever I mean oh
there are all these things that again
they may seem trivial in isolation but
for gay rights they really built
communities wheel communities and for
veganism also now we have to be building
real communities why did why doesn't San
Francisco have a vegan district why
doesn't London England have a vegan
district should you know
many of the great cities in the world
now and in the future need to have a
vegan neighborhood the same way they
have a gay district at the same way they
may have a Chinatown of Chinese dis
director or what have you and again the
the most fundamental message that
delivers is we're here we're not going
to disappear we're a part of this
society and that long-term slow undertow
of the moral demands were making the
ecological concerns were presenting
that's given a body that's given
substance that's something that
gradually and inevitably the whole world
will have to take seriously no matter
how inconvenient it is no matter how
unwanted a challenge it is to their
traditions to their daily dietary habits
to their religious beliefs because well
it's easy to forget veganism it's a
challenge to every Thanksgiving dinner
it's a challenge to all of the Abrahamic
religions Judaism Christianity and Islam
all of them are built on old ultimately
tradition that began with animal
sacrifice and with meat-eating being a
major which relies part of that
tradition so you got to choose you got
to choose your shoes carefully obviously
for example i do not think a strong
issue to choose is you know the
criticism of halal meat which in some
place i'm told in australia some of the
ecological shows that when they made
that the wedge issue was that the
standards for making halal meat or
kosher meat are worse than the standards
for the kind of meat from my perspective
water pollution instead much more
dynamic the first step to choose and we
are talking about a first step for
someone who doesn't already have a
foundation or a movement that were part
out anyway so i continue Molly's emailed
to me Molly says I'm considering going
to law school but only to become an
animal rights defense lawyer however I
would prefer any other route besides
surrendering another three to four years
for intensive study and countless hours
working just to pay it off law is not an
interest to me as far as academic
studies goes but I feel a calling to
make huge changes with the animals so
pause I'll continue a second a lot of
people in Canada wanted to go into human
rights law for this reason
and the fundamental advice you have to
give those people is no there's no such
thing as a human rights lawyer you first
have to just become a lawyer then you
have to become a respected lawyer and
then you become a respected human rights
lawyer you may be underestimated just
how many years of sacrifice this path
involves in terms of working in areas of
law that don't interest you in any way
and what kind of work is involved in the
long slow path of just earning a living
as a lawyer let alone being you know
respected that that process what
basement you already told me I think
you're already aware this is not the
path for you but being known as a good
lawyer being known as a or even a great
lawyer having that great reputation
having that foundation and then slowly
building up because I take it you're not
born a multi-millionaire building up the
capacity to have your own law firm and
then to have that law firm have
reputation for ecology animal rights etc
it's a long so difficult path but look
if you go back I have one video a couple
hours long talking to a lawyer who's
involved with ecology specifically in
Washington DC there are some people who
manage to do it there's some people who
manage to do meaningful work that way
and if you can get in touch with any of
those people including Stephen fate
himself they may give you a much more
positive view of that field they may say
to you know you can get meaningful work
and here's how to do it and it's not as
bad in this bleak as what this political
science guy makes it out to be but
obviously becoming a lawyer somebody had
to consider for myself it's several very
different junctures in my life I'd say
it is still not completely impossible
probability is approaching zero that I
would ever become a lawyer though
Molly's letter continues I guess what
I'm asking of you assuming you have
knowledge of American law is to help me
find another avenue to impact the
current laws without suffering through
law school well we may continue this
discussion for years life is long um on
youtube or by email or what have you I'm
skipping over a few
paragraphs are in the letter Molly
continues I want to see real change in
my lifetime I want to see the fart the
factory farming industry collapsed in
the next few decades we only have so
much time it's real I've only paused and
said but you know you know this about
yourself you know that this is your your
ambition and you know how you feel about
it you know at age 21 you've got a lot
of the pieces of the puzzle it's true
there are a lot more pieces to put
together but it's very positive
basically that you've reached this level
of self-awareness I open this video with
a comparison to the anti-war movement
opposition the Vietnam War United States
oh I'm going to close with with the same
comparison the reality is the anti-war
movement was a failure and it was a
failure in many different ways both
short-term and long-term and I really
sincerely believe that this failure
began with crucially a failure to define
what anti war itself meant in the
context of a political emergency in the
context of so much emotion in the
context of feeling a sense of shock and
horror when you're looking at
photographs of dead bodies you know and
you're being told this is being done by
your army by your taxpayers dollars etc
etc it's very easy to overlook those
fundamental philosophical and political
problems it's very easy to just say well
we're the good people because we're
anti-war and whoever disagrees with us
is bad because they're pro-war and to
run roughshod over all those those
questions now of course it was a failure
just in the sense that it it totally
failed to end the Vietnam War the actual
reasons for why that war ended when it
did had everything to do with a man
named Nixon and another man named Mao
Zedong and China and a unique political
arrangement so called strategic triangle
in Cold War politics the vietnam war
ended when it did for reasons that had
absolutely nothing to do with protests
in the streets had nothing to do with
letter-writing campaigns or any other
form
of political activism within the United
States that may be sad that may be a
bitter pill to swallow that may
contradict a sort of fabled narrative we
have that glorifies street protests in
our culture was the truth it was a
failure in the short term but it was
even more of a failure in the long term
because that deeper question of what
does it mean to be anti-war what does it
mean to be pro peace in the context of
the politics at that time or in the
context of our politics today do you
support peace that he cost peace at what
cost etc well as soon as the vietnam war
was over there was officially and
ostensibly over you know the government
of Vietnam was a human rights disaster
and it still ends it still is a source
of shame and consternation it's not
quite as infamous as North Korea but
still people who felt they were
protesting on the side of peace and
human rights and maybe even democracy
soon found that they were making excuses
for yet another communist dictatorship
and that in fact some of the people on
the pro-war side who had issued really
grave warnings about who the Communist
side were what they would do and how
they would repeat many of the same
things that the Soviet Union had done in
the history of communism many of the
same problems would happen again a lot
of those people were proven correct they
proved to be right chicken is a very
difficult pill to swallow it's in
history most of the time there are no
good guys but um you know definitely
people who put decades of their lives in
that movement were then left feeling
that after all the bad guys had one you
know had they done the right thing look
at the real outcomes as terrible and
brutal as the US intervention in Vietnam
was the US withdrawal which again was
part of a collaboration with communists
it was part of a strategic partnership
between the United States and Communist
China this raised even more difficult
questions and those difficult questions
of course for the very small number of
people who really paid attention to
really cared those questions had to be
asked again and again because in some
places the Vietnam War never
ended most obviously Cambodia the war
just kept going on and on as part of
that strategic partnership between the
US and China and that is truly a story
for another day I think a lot of people
before they started watching videos on
my channel felt completely confident
that they knew what veganism mint and
plenty of people felt offended and felt
angry at me that I was questioning the
meaning of veganism it was raising
really difficult questions whether about
vivisection scientific research pet
ownership insects about killing
mosquitoes about the fact that raising
crops such as wheat and fruit all of our
vegan foods that those also kill insects
the morality of killing insects I think
they felt genuinely hurt and offended
and shocked that I was asking questions
that ultimately point to the heart of of
this movement and its pretensions and
its ethical aspirations and really asked
again and again what is veganism what
should veganism be what do we want
veganism to be what is the future
veganism going to be and that
simultaneously just as absurd as asking
what does it mean to be anti-war and yet
it's also just as meaningful it's just
as crucial it's just as integral to our
success both short-term and long-term
probably the easiest way short term to
organize a vegan political movement is
like the anti-war movement is to just
have a negative definition there were
quite a few movements that have come and
gone some of the most extreme movements
were just anti-vivisection and everyone
involved felt that they understood what
being anti-vivisection meant it's very
simple it's simpler than then being
vegan or being pro ecology or pro
environment and those movements tended
to fall apart whether they had success
or failure or a mixture of both success
and failure what happens to the anti-war
movement once the war you're protesting
against is really over for me even
though now and veganism were so far away
from having any meaningful victory you
can gain
I I'm still haunted by that question so
again I can point to an example you've
heard me indicate many times Mothers
Against Drunk Driving I think they did
win many of their victories they became
this very powerful unfortunate but they
didn't disappear Mothers Against Drunk
Driving is still going every day to
primary schools and high schools and is
educating children and teenagers about
drunk driving their mission never ended
their politia their their political
mandate never ended even after they
scored quite a few victories they didn't
fall apart and I think that reflects
that they have a core membership they
have a group of people supporting them
who really understand that mandate who
really understand the costs involved and
who really built a political foundation
long term it's one of the greatest
success stories within Western democracy
of a civil society organization and you
know in they've changed the world in a
way that's meaningful to them that's the
challenge we're all looking at both in
terms of the process and the product we
want to pursue this change that's
meaningful to us but it does start with
and again we have this luxury it's a
beautiful thing we're in this wonderful
position before we even started it does
start with these questions of really
what is the meaning of veganism and the
reality is in 2016 two different people
will have two very different answers to
that question and ten different people
may have 10 different answers to that
question and I'm trying to find the
people whether there's five people or 50
people who have come to the same
conclusions that I've come to and have a
high level of confidence reliability
competence to high level of intellectual
self-discipline high level of rigor and
who are willing in the next 10 years
next 20 years next 30 years to fight
through democratic means through public
forums through public education through
real political activist
who are willing to fight to make that
change and the beautiful thing is if you
disagree with me if your vision of
veganism and your vision of the future
is different from mine great you start
your own YouTube channel you start your
own foundation and you know maybe there
can be real mutual respect maybe there
can be real mutual admiration between us
despite those fundamental differences
because in even if it's in very
different ways we will both be working
to make the world a better place